---
uid: shard2509071518092610
title: "The 'to {verb}' verb form in Italian is indicated by '-are', '-ere' or '-ire' at the verb's ending"
type: shard
categories: [structure]
dateCreated: 2025-09-07T15:18:09+08:00
dateModified: 2026-02-03T03:54:27+00:00
---
The 'to {verb}' verb form in Italian is indicated by [[Most English verbs with noun forms ending in '-ation' can be transformed to their corresponding Italian 'to' verb form simply by replacing their '-ation' suffix with '-are'|'-are']] or [[Like '-are', '-ere' indicates the 'to {verb}' form of verb too.|'-ere']] or [['-ire' is another 'to {verb}' form ending|'-ire']] at the verb's ending. 

[[In an Italian phrase, it can be observed that when you have a 'to {verb}' form together with a direct object pronoun, despite the direct object pronoun's location, the pronoun is by default understood to receive its action from that 'to {verb}' form]]
## On finding '-are' ending verbs from English
There is an easy way to 'find' '-are' verbs from English words: [[Most English verbs with noun forms ending in '-ation' can be transformed to their corresponding Italian 'to' verb form simply by replacing their '-ation' suffix with '-are']].

## Transformations
The Italan 'to {verb}' form can be transformed in several ways:

1. Direct object pronouns([[What directly receives the action of a verb is called a 'direct object'|pronouns that receives the action of a 'to {verb}' verb form]]) like [['you' in Italian is 'ti'|'ti']], [['Mi' is 'myself' in Italian|'mi']], [[The plural of 'lo', or 'it', is 'li' in Italian. 'Li' means 'them'|'lo'and 'li']] (see [[A list of Italian direct object pronouns|this list for more Italian direct object pronouns]]) can be [[If a verb is in its Italian 'to {verb}' form, direct object pronouns can be attached to the end of it|added to the end of it]]. This is [[Placing a direct object pronoun to the end of a verb in its Italian 'to {verb}' form is optional if another conjugated verb and the Italian 'to {verb}' form exists together|optional if a 'to {verb}' form and another verb exists together]], but is a [[If there is only an Italian 'to {verb}' verb form, direct pronouns must be placed at the end|must if only the 'to {verb}' verb form exists]]. However, [[In Italian, especially when there are two or more 'to {verb}' verb forms present, a direct object pronoun should only be attached to the end of the 'to {verb}' form it directly receives action from|if there are more than one 'to {verb}' verb forms, the direct object pronoun should only be attached to the end of the verb it directly receives action from.]]
2. Transformations or [[Verb conjugations to indicate the doer of the action in Italian|verb conjugations to indicate the doer of the action]]
3. For forming adjectives
	1. [[Forming Past Participles in Italian]]
	2. '-ing' adjectives
		1. [[In Italian, '-ing' adjectives derived from verbs ending in '-are' are usually formed by removing '-are' and adding '-ante']]
		2. [[In Italian, '-ing' adjectives derived from verbs ending in '-ire' are usually formed by removing '-ire' and adding '-ente']]
4. Getting the past tense
	1. [[Some 'to {verb}' forms in Italian express the past tense by placing 'avere' before their past participle, much as 'have' is used in English]]
## Examples
### '-are' ^pbov-
1. [['Piegare' means to fold in Italian]]
2. [['fare' is the Italian word for 'to do' or 'to make']]
3. [['Firmare' is the Italian word for 'to sign']]
4. [['Confermare' is the Italian word for 'to confirm']]
5. [[The 'fermare' in the Italian word 'confermare' means 'to stop']]
6. [['Lavorare' is 'to work' in Italian]]
7. [['Provare' is the verb for 'to try' in Italian]]
8. [['Dimostrare' is the Italian of 'to demonstrate']]
9. [['Organizzare' is the Italian for 'organise']]
10. [['To show' is 'mostrare' in Italian]] 
11. [['Parlare' is 'to speak' in Italian]]
12. [['Indicare' is 'to indicate' in Italian]] or [[The Italian word 'Indicare' can mean 'to point'(with finger)|'to point'(with finger)]]
13. [['invitare' means 'to invite' in Italian]]
14. [['Andare' is 'to go' in Italian]]
15. [['dare' is 'to give' in Italian]]
16. [['Cucinare' is 'to cook' in Italian, literally 'to kitchen']]
17. [['Comprare' is 'to buy' in Italian]]
18. [['pagare' is 'to pay' in Italian]]
19. [['Mangiare' is 'to eat' in Italian]]
20. [['Trovare' is 'to find' in Italian]]
21. [['Interessare' is 'to interest' in Italian]]
22. [['Guidare' is 'to drive' in Italian]]
23. [['Aspettare' is 'to wait' in Italian]]
24. [['lavare' is a regular verb in Italian]]
25. [['guardare' is 'to look' in Italian]]
26. [['entrare' is 'to enter' in Italian]]
27. [['ringraziare' is 'to thank' in Italian]]
28. [['salutare' is 'to greet' in Italian]]
29. [['cominciare' is 'to start' in Italian]]
30. [['giocare' is 'to play' in Italian]]
31. [['attraversare' is 'to cross' in Italian]]
32. [['gridare' is 'to cry' in Italian]]
33. [['telefonare (a)' is 'to phone' in Italian]]
34. [['camminare' is 'to walk' in Italian]]

### '-ere'
1. [['Essere' is 'to be' in Italian]]
2. [['Vedere' is the Italian word for 'to see']]
3. [['Vendere' is 'to sell' in Italian]]
4. [['Conoscere' is 'to know'(someone), or 'to meet'(for the first time) in Italian]]
5. [['Sapere' is 'to know'(information) in Italian]]
6. [['Volere' is 'to want' in Italian]]
7. [['vivere' is 'to live' in Italian]]
8. [['potere' is 'to be able' in Italian]]
9. [['correre' is 'to run' in Italian]]

### '-ire'
1. [['Avvertire' is the Italian word for 'to warn']]
2. [['Venire' is 'to come' in Italian]]
3. [['capire' means 'to understand' in Italian]]
4. [['Differire' is 'to differ' in Italian]]
5. [['pulire' is 'to clean' in Italian]]
6. [['Dire' is 'to say' in Italian]]
7. [['divertire' is 'to entertain' or 'to have fun' in Italian]]
8. [['vestire' is a regular verb in Italian]]