---
uid: shard2509101654472350
title: About Italian words that relate to datetime
type: shard
categories: [structure]
dateCreated: 2025-09-10T16:54:47+08:00
dateModified: 2025-12-15T02:39:52+00:00
---
About Italian words that relate to datetime

1. [['data' is 'date' in Italian]]
2. [['Volta' is 'time' in the sense of occurence in Italian]]
3. [['fino' is 'until' in Italian]]
4. [['mentre' is 'while' or 'during the time that' in Italian]]
5. [['Today' in Italian is 'oggi']]
6. [['Domani' is 'tomorrow' in Italian]]
7. [['Ieri' is 'yesterday' in Italian]]
8. [['più tardi' is 'later' in Italian which is literally translated to 'more late']]
9. [['Tardi' is the Italian word for 'late']]
10. [['Ancora' is 'yet' in Italian]]
11. [['Ancora' is 'again' or 'another time' in Italian]]
12. [['adesso' is 'at present' in Italian]]
13. [[Hours in Italian are feminine plural nouns]], [[When talking about the hour in Italian, 'le' + 'number' is used]], and [['Alle {hours}' is 'At {hours} o'clock' in Italian]]
14. [['settimana' is 'week' in Italian]]
15. [['Anno' is 'year' in Italian]]
16. [['Ora' is 'hour' in Italian]], [['minuto' is 'minutes' in Italian]], [['secondo' is 'second' in Italian]]
	1. To say half an hour or minute, [['mezzo' is 'half' in Italian|'mezzo']] is used before 'minuto' or 'ora'
	2. To say a quarter, [['un quarto' is 'one-fourth' in Italian|'un quarto']] is used

Parts of the day:
1. [['mattina' is 'morning' in Italian]]
2. [['pomeriggio' is 'afternoon' in Italian]]
3. [['sera' is 'evening' in Italian]]
4. [['Giorno' is 'day' in Italian]]
5. [['notte' is 'night' in Italian]]

About Days('giorni') in Italian
4. [['Lunedì' is 'Monday' in Italian]]
5. [['Martedì' is 'Tuesday' in Italian]]
6. [['Mercoledì' is 'Wednesday' in Italian]]
7. [['Giovedì' is 'Thursday' in Italian]]
8. [['Venerdì' is 'Friday' in Italian]]
9. [['Sabato' is 'Saturday' in Italian]]
10. [['Domenica' is 'Sunday' in Italian]]


About Months([['Mese' is 'month' in Italian|'mesi']]) in Italian

Note in expressing days of the month: [[In Italian, only the first of the month is regularly expressed with an ordinal number(primo), the rest uses regular numbers(due...trentuno)]]

1. [['Gennaio' is 'January' in Italian]]
2. [['Febbraio' is 'February' in Italian]]
3. [['Marzo' is 'March' in Italian]]
4. [['Aprile' is 'April' in Italian]]
5. [['Maggio' is 'May' in Italian]]
6. [['Giugno' is 'June' in Italian]]
7. [['Luglio' is 'July' in Italian]]
8. [['Agosto' is 'August' in Italian]]
9. [['Settembre' is 'September' in Italian]]
10. [['Ottobre' is 'October' in Italian]]
11. [['Novembre' is 'November' in Italian]]
12. [['Dicembre' is 'December' in Italian]]

About seasons([['stagione' is 'season' in Italian|'stagioni']]) in Italian
1. [['Primavera' is 'spring' in Italian]]
2. [['Estate' is 'summer' in Italian]]
3. [['autunno' is 'autumn' in Italian]]
4. [['inverno' is 'winter' in Italian]]