---
uid: shard2509291559107310
title: List of relationships of words between languages
type: shard
categories: [structure]
dateCreated: 2025-09-29T07:59:10+00:00
dateModified: 2025-10-13T08:31:18+00:00
---
A list of relationships of words between Italian and other languages
1. [[The 'lib' in 'library' is clearly related with the Italian word for book 'libro']]
2. [['Posso', 'I can' is related to 'possibile', 'possible']]
3. [[The 'mort' in 'mortgage' is related to 'mortal' that is 'mortale' in Italian]]
4. [[Some English words related to the economy are of Latin origin as their partial meanings makes sense in Italian]]
5. [['index' as in 'index finger' is related with the Italian word 'indicare' meaning 'to point']]
6. [[The advert in 'inadvertently' is related to the Italian word 'avvertire' that means 'to warn']]
7. [[Perhaps 'journ' in 'journey' is related with the Italian word 'giorno' meaning 'day', too, as with 'journal']]
8. [['Debt' is 'obligation' because it is related to the Italian word 'devo' that means 'I must', 'I have to']]
9. [[The English word 'Vendor' is clearly related to the Italian word 'Vendere']]
10. [[The 'journ' in the word 'journal' is related to the Italian word 'giorno' meaning 'day']]
11. [[The meaning for 'advertisement' is related to 'a warning' as 'advertise' is related to the Italian word 'avvertire' that means 'to warn']]
12. [[The 'bene' in the English word 'benefit' is related with 'bene' in Italian, indicating 'wellness']]
13. [[The English word 'Fable' and the Italian word 'Parlare' are related through consonant shifting between 'f' and 'p']]
14. [[English words like 'monitor', 'admonish' and 'money' could be related to the same root for 'monster' as in the Italian 'to show' or 'monstrare']]
15. [['Video' is not just an English word but also a Latin word that is related to the Italian verb 'vedere' that means 'to see']]
16. [[In languages of Latin origin, at least in Italian and in English, the Latin root of 'monster' was used for some words related to 'showing']]
17. [[The literal meaning of the English word 'Thursday' is very similar to the Italian word for it, 'Giovedì' despite the two appearing dissimilar at first glance]]
18. [[Because the meaning of 'probable' is similar to 'testable' or 'triable', we can get the Italian word for 'to try', 'provare']]
19. [['Incredibile', from the transformation of 'Incredible', means 'Unbelievable' in Latin and Italian]]
20. [['Dimostrare' literally means 'from monster']]
21. [['conoscere' can be recognised from the word 'recognise' because 'recognising' is 're-knowing' and the way 'recognising' is spelled is very close to 're-conoscere']]
22. [[The English word 'Labour' and the Italian word 'Lavorare' came from the same root]]
23. [['Voglio' is connected to 'volunteer' in English because 'volunteering' involves 'wanting']]
24. [[The 'par' in 'parola' is clearly related to the Italian word for 'to speak' or 'parlare']]

Words between English and other languages(not yet mentioned)
1. [['Organise' is related to the word 'organs' because our 'organs' are 'organised']]
2. [[The 'mon' in 'money' could be related with 'monster', as 'money' is a 'show' of value.]]
3. [[The English word 'cape' is also related with the 'cap' root meaning 'head']]
4. [[The English word 'escape' or 'to escape' is related with the word 'cape', whereby the meaning behind it was to get away from a pursuer leaving only one's cape behind]]
5. [[The meaning of 'probable' is similar to 'testable' or 'triable']]
6. [[Most English words ending in 'able' and 'ible' are from Latin]]
7. [[Most English words ending in 'al' are from Latin]]
8. [[Simply removing the negating 'in' from some English words of a Latin origin reveals its Latin opposite, its root word]]
9. [['Souvenir' is 'memory' in French, literally meaning, from the French words 'sous' and 'venir', 'come from below']]
10. [[The English word 'consequence' literally means 'with sequence']]
11. [[Some English words with the prefix 'con-' use it to mean 'with', similar to the Italian 'con', as in the word 'conform'#^2scx2|'Conform' is literally 'with form']]
12. [[The English word 'Parole', used for when a prisoner is released, is related to the Italian word for 'word', 'parola', and as such, 'to be on parole' literally becomes 'to be on words']]
13. [[The Italian word 'Sapere' is related with the English slang 'Savvy', meaning 'street smart']]
14. [[The Italian word 'Sapere' is related to 'Sapien' in 'Homo Sapien']]
15. [['Convenient' literally relates to 'coming together' from 'con' and 'venire']]
16. [[The Italian word 'molto' and the English word 'multiple' are related with each other]]
17. [[The English word 'Essence' relates to the Italian word 'essere', 'in essence' means something like'in being']]
18. [[The English word 'interesting' is related with the Italian word 'to be', that is 'essere', from 'est' of 'interest']]
19. [['September' is related to the Italian word 'sette']]
20. [['October' is related with the Italian word 'otto']]
21. [[Like 'September' related to the Italian word for 7, and 'October' related to the Italian word for 8, 'November' is related to the Italian word for 9|'November' used to be the 9th month of the year]]
22. [['December' is related to the Italian word 'dieci']]
23. [[The English word 'pendulum' is related to the Italian word 'pendente']]
24. [[The English word 'polish' is related to the Italian word 'pulire']]

Words between German and other languages(not yet mentioned)
1. [[Not only is the literal meaning for Thursday is similar between Italian and English, it is also similar in the German word for it]]
2. [['Apfel' is 'Apple' in German]], [[The 'p' to 'f' shift is common between English and German words]]
3. [[The English word 'hanging' is very similar to the German word for 'hang', 'Aufhängen']]