---
uid: le2508121549148650
title: "Why 'Shards' and not 'Main Notes'"
type: lore-entry
summary: 
tags:
  - shards
categories: 
dateCreated: 2025-08-12T15:49:10+08:00
dateModified: 2025-08-14T15:19:35+08:00
---
Originally, I decided call them "fragments" instead. However, I thought of a name that suits my system and its workflow better: **Shards**. Why? Well, for two reasons.

First, the word "shard" is shorter than "fragment", and is thus easier to say and, perhaps, remember.

Second, as a "fragment" is "a part separated off a whole", it may imply that the thoughts were written and designed to play a specific role within a predetermined whole, like blocks in a grand edifice. This makes sense if the thoughts that were written here were designed for a certain purpose, as in my other PKM system where I know what I seek and what I intend to create. In it, the entries are, indeed, building blocks.

For the [[The system behind the Anticodex|system behind the Anticodex]], however, this is not the case.

Here, the word "shard" makes far more sense. Allow me to explain. A "shard", being "a piece of broken ceramic, glass, or metal", may imply that the thoughts within it are pieces permanently separated from a broken whole. These pieces may then somehow be joined with pieces from other broken wholes, forming a new and unexpected unity. In effect, it results in the discovery of novel ideas(to me), or the rediscovery of ideas already known to others. In this way, the shards *illuminate* by bringing light to ideas awaiting discovery. Yet this illumination is true only for my mind; you may already know what I do not, and thus you will not be illuminated in the same way.

I could call them what a conventional Zettelkasten user would, as *main notes*, but that would be dull and boring, and "main notes" could never convey this final point behind my choice of name:

Be it called a "fragment" or "shard", either way, as [[The Shards|these are footprints, or windows into the past of my thinking]]—each "fragmented piece", each Shard, tells the story of a larger whole: *my knowledge*.